So in this part, we'll start talking
about descriptive data collection.
So descriptive data collection,
as you recall,
basically talks about trying to understand
for instance, who are our customers?
What does the?
And all those kinds of question
where you have to have hard numbers.
So how can you do this?
This can possibly be done in two ways.
One is active data collection, and
one is unobtrusive data collection.
In the Active Data Collection,
you an start thinking about again,
two ways broadly of thinking
about data collection.
One is surveys, which is the mainstay of
market research for many, many companies.
The other one are self-reports
coming from your customers.
We'll talk about both of the them.
So let's start with surveys.
Surveys, pretty much used by
every Fortune 500 company.
Regularly used for
gathering customer attitudes.
You can think about sentiments.
You can think about purchase habits.
Many different things
actively gathered by surveys.
And data of course,
can be helped to segment customers.
Start thinking about
who our customers are.
Start thinking about,
who do they buy from?
All of those questions that you need to
understand to set your marketing strategy.
Now, there are many, many companies out
there that can help you do these surveys.
I'll give you some examples.
Qualtrics is a very famous company that
helps you conduct free surveys sometimes.
Another example is Survey Monkey.
Now, both of these companies not only
help you do sometimes free surveys, but
they can also be full service companies.
So for instance, if you look at the
pricing plan of one of these companies.
They allow you and
they price you differently
based upon whether you would like
them to find your customers,
you would like them to setup the survey,
analyze the data and give you that data.
So in that sense, when you start
thinking about doing surveys,
there are already companies out there
that can help you reach out to customers,
collect that data, and analyze the data.
But of course,
surveys are not the only way in which
you can get information from customers.
You can actually ask customers, directly,
who self-report some of those surveys.
So if you look at, for
example, mobile surveys.
That's the next frontier.
And these are basically companies that
are giving these suveys on mobile devices.
Again, some common examples,
Qualtrics is one company that does both.
It does surveys on the desktop.
It also does surveys on mobile devices.
Another company, for example, is Mixpanel.
Again, what's the idea here?
The idea here is, you want to
basically send surveys to customers
in the moment of purchase sometimes.
So what do mobile surveys allow you to do?
They allow you to capture
customers' reactions in-situ
rather than being retrospective.
For example, you can actually send
a survey to a mobile device of a customer
at the time that they're making a purchase
decision rather than one month later.
So clearly the kind of sentiment,
the feelings that customers might have
at the time of purchase,
would be better captured,
rather than making them think about
that purchase one month later.
The questionnaire can be tailored
based on location and context.
So again,
looking at where the mobile device is.
Now, the words it tells
you where the customer is.
If the customer is in a mall,
you can ask questions about what
they’re doing in that mall.
If the customer is at a restaurant, you
can ask questions tailored based on that.
So, very tailored surveys can be done.
But what’s the caveat?
You don’t want to overdo it.
Marketers should be very careful,
rather than kind of,
again, using this leverage
of making a tailored survey.
You don't want to keep sending surveys
again and again to the same customer.
You quite often see a huge amount
of survey fatigue setting in.
So it's important again, use this power
of mobile surveys but up to a limit.
So now that we've talked about
different ways of conducting surveys,
either mobile surveys and so on.
Let's go into more depth.
What are the kinds of questions
you can ask using surveys?
And what are some dos and don'ts?
Now, before implementing the survey,
there are two big issues that come forth.
What are the different kinds of questions,
and how do you validate a survey?
In other words, is it worth
collecting what you're collecting?
Let's go over the first issue.
What are the different kinds of questions?
Now, this is in some sense a list
of different kinds of questions.
Of course, there are many kinds
of questions out there, but
these are the important ones.
So what I'm going to do in
the next few slides is to go
over each type of questions, look at
what are the positives and negatives,
in some sense the pros and cons.
And then,
kind of talk about best practices.
So let's start with the first one,
itemized category.
Here's one example of this.
How satisfied are you with
your health insurance plan?
It could be different buckets.
In this case, you have five buckets from
very satisfied to very dissatisfied.
Notice, the extent of category
descriptions are quite clear,
and there is a balance of favorable and
unfavorable categories.
What does that mean?
There's a middle point.
Neither satisfied or dissatisfied.
On the other hand, you have two
categories which are above that.
Quite satisfied and very satisfied.
And two categories below that.
Quite dissatisfied and very dissatisfied.
So on the surface of it, I think this
is very good way of asking a question.
But what are some cons with this?
Well, one big con is, compare to what?
Of course, if the person who's
answering this question does not have
health insurance,
clearly this question is not relevant.
It could be possible that the question
is being answered by a person who is
thinking about insurance
that he had before.
If that's the reference point,
the answer that he might be getting
might be quite different across people.
In other words,
the problem with this is you don't know
what people are comparing it against.
So that's one issue with
the itemized category.
Let's look at another one which
tries to address this issue.
Here, which we would call as a comparative
question, you directly ask compared to
private clinics in the area, the doctors
in private practice provide a quality of
medical care which is very
inferior to very superior.
So what have we done here?
You've tried to address a problem
with the previous set of questions,
which is, you're explicitly telling
people what to compare against.
But what's the problem here?
What are the big loss of information?
The big loss of information is,
both alternatives might not be that great.
So you're comparing two alternatives
which might be both below the bar.
But one is better than the other.
So what do we see here?
Depending upon the type
of question you can ask,
there might be some loss of
information that always happens.
So what I want to do again in the next
few slides is to show you different
kinds of ways you can ask questions which
tries to get at the heart of the problems.
Here's another one.
It's called ranking questions.
An example of this would be the following.
Please rank the following
characteristic of, let's say,
cellphone service in terms
of their importance.
1 to 8, there are 8 categories given.
1 here is the most important,
8 is the least important, and
typically when you're asking
these questions, no ties allowed.
What that means is, only one of these
things could be the most important and
only one of them is the least
important and so on.
So what do we see here?
First of all,
the type of categories are quite clear.
But what it also involves
is a lot of comparisons.
In other words, people would have to do
a lot of comparisons when they're going
across all of this.
So if you look at it,
for the first one, for
the first rank, you're comparing
across eight different categories, and
giving one of those
categories as the top rank.
Let's say reception clarity for
you is the most important one, so
you give it number 1.
Then, when you're going
through giving rank number 2,
you again have to do seven comparisons.
It's a lot of different comparisons.
What that means is
typically such type of data
might not be very beneficial to collect.
If you have a lot of categories that you
want people to compare, what might end up
happening is that people give the rank 1,
2 and 3, perhaps thinking a lot, and
after that, it might be too many
comparisons for people to make.
So the typical rule of thumb, or the best
practice here, is that you don't give
too many categories, maybe 8 might
actually be already quite a lot.
So maybe 6 to 8 might be a good
number of categories to give.
If you give more than that,
you might get good quality data only for
the top one or two, and after that it
might not be a lot of distinguishing data.
Another example of this is something
called a paired comparison.
In fact, if you think about it, which
we'll cover later on in these sessions,
something called conjoined.
If you think about it, you will see
that this type of comparison data
is coming actually from
a conjoined type of survey.
Which of the following two
products do you prefer?
On the left-hand side you have
Honda Accord, price of $18,000,
automatic transmission and
a luxury package.
On the right-hand side you have Toyota
Tercel, $16,000, manual transmission,
standard package.
What are we trying to do here?
What we're trying to do here is forcing
people to compare among the two objects.
And this way,
by looking at what they choose and
what they don't choose,
you try and understand what is it
that people care about when they're
choosing among these two products.
This looks like a great way of
understanding what people like, why?
Because this actually mimics what
people probably do in the real world.
Imagine you want a laptop.
What do you typically do?
You go down, let's say,
to Best Buy or any other store, or
maybe on Amazon,
whatever is your preferred provider.
You go and
start comparing different laptops.
You choose the different things
that you want to compare things on.
So for example, for
a laptop it might be the screen size,
it might be how heavy it is,
what's the CPU, and so on.
So this really mimics what people
really do in perhaps real life.
But what are some issues with this?
Issues are the following.
Again, if you have, let's say,
two comparisons here, two products,
Honda Accord, Toyota Tercel, people
might prefer Honda Accord to Tercel, but
might actually hate both.
Let's say you're given another option.
It might be the case that amongst these
two, Honda Accord is preferable but
it's still below the bar
in terms of what they like.
Another problem of course is,
large number of brands cannot be compared.
Imagine yourself competing among six or
seven different brands with lots
of different kinds of features.
Very, very difficult for
you to make that decision, why?
Because, again,
there'll be lot of comparisons.
What's the best practice here?
Typically, you have about
two to three brands.
So that way you can get good data in
terms of how people are comparing across
different brands.
And also you don't want too many features
or too many attributes of these brands.
Typically about six is
a good number to have.
In this example, we have four which
is the brand name, the price,
what kind of transmission is it and
what kind of package is it.
So about four to six
features per brand and
about two to three brands
in terms of comparison.
Anything more than that, I think it'll
become very difficult for respondents
to clearly understand what the differences
are and give you good reliable data.
The next one is the one which
is the most common form.
What's the story here?
The idea here is you have many statements,
typically on the horizontal.
Which is here you see for
the first one might be I buy many
things with a credit card, and so on.
And in each row you answer
whether you agree or
disagree with these kinds of statements.
So this gives you an ability
to collect a lot of data
in terms of what people like and
what people don't like.
This is called the Likert Scale, it's
the most common form of questioning and
is used very frequently when you want
people to think about lots of different
statements, in this case about
credit cards, and related ideas.
Here's another example,
something called the Continuous Scale.
The idea here is if you have, for example,
some things that you want to show people
and you want what is called
in-situ preferences.
What that means is you want preferences
as they are thinking about or
looking at a particular, let's say,
video or movie clip and so on.
What do people do?
Typically it's a bar, in some sense it
can done on the internet very easily,
very popular with computer
mediated surveys.
You can have a bar,
a mouse click and so on and
people, as they are watching a video or
as they are watching an advertisement and
so on, they can move this bar between do
they like this or do they not like this.
So this is very popular,
especially in computer mediated surveys.
When you want information, or how
people are looking at your product, and
how that preference changes as they're
going through the different products.
So if they're looking
at a particular video.
Let's say you're an ad provider and you
want to see how people's preference for
that ad changes as they're viewing the ad.
So while they're viewing this,
you can keep changing that counter.
Many of us might see this more
recently in election polls.
So what happens during elections is
when they're having debates and so on,
they typically have an audience which has
this meter which can go back and forth.
So as they're going through an argument,
you can kind of see
how people are preferring towards one or
the other candidate.
So this is what is called
as a continuous scheme.
Now, what I wanted to do here
was basically give you a broad
overview of the different
kinds of questions.
Notice these are not an exhaustive set.
There are many other kinds of
questions that are out there.
But what I wanted to take away from all of
this is that each type of question that
you ask, whether it's a rating scale, is
it a comparative scale, Likert Scale and
so on, each one of those
questions has some pros and cons.
So thinking carefully about what kind of
question to ask depends upon what the end
goal is.
That brings me to issue number two.
What is the end goal here?
The end goal can be of two forms,
one is called validity and
one is called reliability.
In other words, is what you're collecting
going to be worth anything at all?
So lets take that issue.
Validity, basically the idea
is of predictive validity.
So for instance, let's say you're asking a
net promoter score which is something that
I'll talk about in the next slide itself.
Net promoter score typically is one where
you measure customer satisfaction, okay?
And you're trying to see whether
people are going to refer your product
to other people.
Now, what you'd like to hope for is that
net promoter score typically predicts for
example, customer profits, firm profits or
other kinds of different variables
that you might be interested in.
If it does, then what you would say
is that that particular survey,
net promoter score,
has good predictive validity.
What that predictive validity
means is that it's worthwhile
collecting that survey
data because it predicts
a particular type of deeper variable
that you as a firm are interested in.
It could be profit, stock prices,
other kinds of behavior.
Another way to look at how good
surveys are is using the reliability.
One specific form of reliability is
called test, retest reliability.
What that means is very simple.
It basically says how stable is it,
that what you're collecting.
If you were to remeasure for example,
customer satisfaction and so
on, does it vary a lot?
If it does, from one time we
measure it to the next time,
what it tells you is perhaps
it's not a very stable measure.
It has a lot of volatility.
Ideally what you would like to do
is to have a measure or a scale or
a way of measuring things,
which are reasonably stable.
So that you take comfort in
the fact that once you measure it,
it's not going to change very volatile.
So those are two ways in which you can
measure how good a survey is, validity and
reliability.
So in the next few slides, we're going to
take a concrete example of a survey,
the net promoter score, see what are the
dos and don'ts of survey design as well.
But before I do that, I just want
to summarize what are the pros and
cons of surveys.
Let's first look at the pros.
Low cost, relatively easy to implement,
good way to learn about
potential customers.
On the cons, not very easy to
write a survey that's non-biased.
And we'll bring that up.
We will talk about the best practices.
The second big issue is how do
you get the right respondents?
Who are the people that
should answer the survey?
Again, something I'll bring up when
we talk about the dos and don'ts.
And what about products
that requires some use?
So there, surveys might not
be the best way to do, why?
Because these are products that actually
requires customers to use the product.
So in that case, what will the people do?
Typically you might do, for
example, a focus group,
where you ask people to first look
at the prototype, touch the product,
feel the product, use the product, and
then perhaps do a survey after that.
So these are the big pros and
cons of surveys.
When you think about implementing
some surveys, keep these in mind.